and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show first episode for the new
year 2021
and excited to be joined by peter
hopwood today
peter help speakers high performers high
performing professionals
corporate teams tedx speakers and
accelerator startups all across the
globe
to build acute speaking and presence
skills
creating impact where it matters peter a
very well welcome sir how are you doing
i'm doing really well thank you so much
great to be here
good man good man so looking forward to
this peter we're gonna be talking all
about
how we can learn to speak virtually with
confidence
and most importantly with impact and i
think it's a really timely episode
especially as the uk has just gone back
down into full lockdown
sadly so we're all stuck in we're
probably doing more zoom more skype more
video conference calls than we could
ever have imagined
so this is a very timely conversation so
i'm sure there's going to be a lot of
gold nuggets
hopefully yeah absolutely i mean listen
i'm i'm i'm lucky i'm i'm actually in
croatia in the south
uh coast of croatia we're not in the
same situation as as you guys
in in the uk so yeah you're right i mean
you've already done we already been
through it once
yeah in the first part of the year and
now it's uh you know there's no
no excuse really to to to do it well so
um
so let's uh let's dive in yeah man
looking forward to this we'll jump
straight in we're gonna be talking all
about
both video conferences perhaps we can
talk a little bit about
in-person speaking so when we are able
to do that again
how we can bump those up for our
face-to-face meetings with prospects
with clients potential customers and the
like um
but before we get to that let's let's
talk about the mindset side of things
peter
so before we even get into our video
calls that we've perhaps got booked in
let's talk about how we need to prep
what we need to think about and how we
need to how we need to get ourselves
ready to feel as confident as possible
listen what you've just said there is is
exactly what we need to think about at
the beginning before we do
anything before we've even prepared
before we've
written one word or a couple of
sentences about
the talk we're going to present or
whatever we're doing in terms
of speaking in public we really need to
to get into the right frame of mind
because
up here what happens up here when we're
feeling
good or we're feeling focused about what
we're going to say we know the purpose
yeah we know why we're doing it what the
objective is how we want people
to feel after we've spoken
once you've got that clear once that's
done once that's kind of sorted out
everything else is kind of shaped
towards that so what your body does
in tune with what you're thinking what
your voice does
again in tune with what you're thinking
a little example for example right now
we're on this podcast
i can hear your feeling good it sounds
genuine
um but you know i'm sure i'm sure over
the last 100 and something
how many podcasts have you done so far
how many oh yeah yeah
i think we're about 100 six of 107
something like that 107. so
107 podcasts i'm sure at least one of
those
you weren't feeling great you weren't
feeling perhaps
up to doing it you like you like what
you do you're passionate about it but
maybe
something's on your mind um you've got
there's something going on with your
family with you with
with um with your children for example
or something
another problem or what a child sorry
yep one child
um so or in your marriage or whatever it
is
that will affect how we're feeling so if
we're not in the right frame of mind
before we speak
getting ready it's going to affect how
we how we sound
how we feel how we move our body
and everything is kind of tuned in
towards that so
it's actually getting into the right
frame of mind well well before so you
know your objectives and you know your
purpose
and then just before you begin really
get into that
feeling of listen i'm gonna i'm gonna be
sharing something cool now i'm gonna be
sharing
um something that's gonna make people
feel xx and x
focus on that don't focus on anything
else focus on that and then
that will come across so where however
we're feeling
that will come across for example again
you're on holiday
you've just uh you've just come back
from holiday so you're tanned up you're
feeling good
you've had great food great weather lots
of sun you come
home those conversations you have with
people maybe not when you come home
because it will be raining and
and really bad weather but generally
towards the end of your holiday you'll
be
you're feeling good you're in that
you're in that zone and those
conversations you
have and when people see you again when
you get back
back to work people will be looking at
you go you look good you
you you sound good things things are
going well for you because you're
feeling good opposite to that you're you
you know you've got a cold and you're a
bit groggy or something's on your mind
yeah again those conversations you have
with people
even on a zoom call over the phone face
to face
those are going to be you know they are
they're disrupted connected with how
you're feeling so your feelings up here
really do leak out really come out in
your voice
primarily in your voice and naturally in
your body movement as well
got it so just to touch on that a bit
further peter you raised a really good
point
as you mentioned whilst i i sound like
i'm on top of the moon sometimes we all
have bad days not just me sometimes it's
through lack of sleep with our little
one sometimes it's we've just got loads
of work on at the time or whatever it is
outside our perhaps control there's
always going to be things that
prevent us from feeling 100 unless we've
just come back from a nice sunny holiday
with plenty of cocktails plenty of beers
whatever we like eating and drinking and
all that good stuff
um which is usually my case so let's
let's say we've
we're perhaps a bit tired perhaps we've
had back-to-back calls but we've got a
really important meeting at the end of
the day it's on zoom
it's a video conference and it's a deal
that we really need to land or it's a
meeting we really need to go well to
progress our
sales to progress our business how do we
flip it
so we're not sounding like we're about
to fall asleep
and we're really ready for tea and
perhaps a snooze to we're actually
sounding alert we're sounding happy
we're sounding ready to rock and roll
great question exactly i mean we listen
we've most of us are feeling like that
and some of us feel like
every single day but hey um but but yeah
the idea
is before you begin you have to remember
you know that how you feel is going to
affect
the way other people feel all right so
the first thing to do is
is really take some time out just a
couple of minutes even if it's like two
three minutes
let's say five minutes before you begin
or ten minutes before you begin
and just just try to be as calm as you
can breathe start breathing
you know just just gentle breaths deep
breaths
okay and then start thinking about again
okay what is it i want
i want to achieve in this you know what
what do i want
the other person to feel when i'm when
i'm speaking to them
okay and that will start to get you to
feel
more confident as well say to yourself
what are the
what the adjectives that you want people
to
feel or or their perception of you
connected to an adjective
i'll ask you now for example right now
on this podcast
if nobody if somebody's listening to
this right now
linkedin live or wherever it is on
online record it afterwards
when they look at this podcast and look
at you sam
what do you want in terms of adjectives
tell me the adjectives
what do you want them how do you want
them to describe you
tell me i would hope upbeat
professional energetic
okay hopefully knows what he's talking
about but i can't always say that's true
okay so those three those three are kind
of like visual
appearance um in terms of the energy and
tone
okay let's move on towards how they
perceive you as a professional
give me some more objectives yeah
perhaps interesting
perhaps um knowledgeable reasonably
knowledgeable
unless you've got i guess like yourself
down sam you're putting yourself down
yeah absolutely knowledgeable kind of
yeah i mean that's why we're bringing
guests like you peter
you can share share your insights i like
that good move witty
i would put in there witty somewhere um
yes incredible
knowledgeable um
and one wants to help people to learn
so just by saying though so when we're
having this
last conversation now these few phrases
we've exchanged now just by saying those
things and hearing those things
in your head probably sam that makes you
start to
feel those things more than you did
before yeah
yeah exactly it's i guess it's in the
back of your mind
and until you've actually raised it then
peter i'd never thought of it properly
so whilst you i guess you have those
things in the back of your mind you
think you want to come across
but until you actually start saying it
to yourself look i want to come across
as x y and z
i want to be perceived as x y and z then
it's actually a nice exercise because
i've never actually thought of it that
way
say those things say those things to
yourself before each episode i mean it
will change slightly
those are the sort of main ones i would
say in terms of every episode but when
we talk
whoever you're talking to in terms of
the guests and the topic
you can kind of like um navigate it
towards that as well so
again the self-talk in your head
is the biggest is the loudest voice
we'll ever hear
so we need to you know we need to listen
to that but also
you know be be kind to ourselves tell
tell yourself
the good stuff listen a hundred listen
again those days where
sam perhaps you're not feeling that
great and you're not feeling
that um you think a little bit a little
bit self-conscious perhaps
and we all do that and doubt ourselves
sometimes remind yourself listen
107 episodes is this number 108 maybe i
don't know
100 and something episodes that's a mean
feat to do
you've kept this going okay you've got a
lot of people
listening a lot of people engage with
you a lot of people
like what you do so just you just have
to
sometimes tell yourself all these things
and they they you know they will come to
the top of mind
and then you're ready to move on with
that because often again
small things the negative things if
we've got like you know
50 things great about us and two things
that we really hate about ourselves
those two things
often will stick out in our minds so
we're kind of by default we stick with
the
negative stuff so we need to we need to
focus on the good stuff
focus on the good stuff focus on how
we're feeling focus on
how we want to be perceived take those
deep breaths
calm down um really feel
ready for this the conversation you're
going to have the zoom call
and really show the other person you
know
through things like eye contact through
your body movement through your voice
that you're really listening to them
really respecting them
really interested in them and that will
you know that will start
that will help bring down the nerves and
get you get you into the right mood
it's all about the mood you're making me
feel really calm now peter
and i feel like what you've said can be
transitioned not just through to video
calls video sessions
but also to a whole bunch of things
whether it's sales calls whether it's
cold calls whether it's just reaching
out to your existing customers anything
in sales or business that you feel a bit
apprehensive about
if you think about how far you've come
so you
linked it back to my podcast but if
you're running your own business perhaps
your successes over the last
12 months perhaps how many customers
you've onboarded perhaps how many deals
you've won or how successful your
marketing has been or any any of these
little feats
over the last 12 months you think
yourself back to those rather than
negatives and you'll realize well
there's a heck of a lot of
things actually achieved more than i
perhaps pay myself credit for
and then i guess that'll give you a
little bit of buzz a little bit of
uplift that you need
before you jump in in our in our case to
the video session
absolutely and again the way you started
this episode for example which you do on
on nearly every episode it's it's upbeat
it's energetic it gets people's
attention
and you need to do that because remember
nobody
owes you their time at all
right right now people that are
listening to us are with us right now
you know we're grateful because they're
listening to us they've got 100 another
101 other things they could be doing
but they're spending their time with us
and we have to always always
remember people's time is so valuable
and we need to be grateful for that
and to show that that gratitude we need
to give them value
we need to give them something that will
make them
stay with us something that they will
get by the end of the conversation
that we're having right now for example
and get them excited about what's going
to
going to happen which you did you know
you did beautifully at the beginning
how did you do it at the beginning it
was a nice intro hi
once again here we are the episode blah
blah blah and then you talked about a
little bit about who
who the guest is what he does and and
what he's going to share so that
within the first 60 seconds people were
were kind of like ready and they knew
what's coming
and hopefully they were kind of excited
in a way about what's coming but it was
good at the beginning because
people could decide whether they're
going to stick with you
or not so they see us they look at us
they look at
how we move they look at our body
language they look at what's
what's behind us here what's behind you
as well
but the biggest influencer is the voice
so so what they hear the sounds they
hear
is the biggest influencer so so people
could jump onto this
this uh this episode live on linkedin
they'll see
stuff they'll see what's in front of
them but the voice your voice
and my voice and this conversation we're
having
the sounds that we're we're sharing
these are the things that influence
people the most whether they think we're
confident enough those words you were
talking about earlier on
the adjectives more about credibility
knowledge you as a professional that all
comes
through the sound of your voice
the energy the tone the pitch the pace
the volume so all those things together
in terms of the voice are so so
important and
and um and and this this is right this
is
live now so people can see this visually
but when it goes
as a podcast episode the only thing
people have
to go by is our voice
so it's really really important to make
sure that
that you're working on your voice that
you're building on how you sound
understand how you sound and try to
improve that process
got it some some great tips there peter
so moving this forward away from mindset
and getting into the call itself which
we've touched on a bit there in terms of
how we sound which is very applicable
because we won't always
have our video cameras on although we'd
recommend that for
for most sessions it's like we said it's
it's gonna going to help you greatly
um but it may not be always be the case
so when we've perhaps kicked off our
call
we've started off with a bit of energy
we've perhaps given a bit of value about
what we're going to share
during the cool and what are what we're
looking to cover the goals objectives
and what we want to accomplish on that
conference how do we ensure that we're
coming across as confident when we're
during the call
and how do we ensure that we're
maintaining
our potential customers or our existing
customers attention
because i've seen it so many times even
though i think i'm really interesting at
the time i'm probably not
and they're looking at their smartphone
or perhaps they're having a bite of
their sandwich or they're having a bit
of their drink how do we make
a sandwich i like that yeah
cheeky bites cheeky little nibble how do
we maintain that their attention
um throughout the call yeah no good good
question
so to avoid those cheeky little nibbles
and uh
those uh you know swigs of uh beer
perhaps or whatever drink they have
um yeah it's it's all about getting
their attention and keeping their
attention now there's one thing i've
been doing since the beginning and i'm
sure you've been doing
the same thing as well my where my
vision is where i'm looking i'm
constantly looking bang at this
camera lens right so i could be looking
elsewhere and naturally i'm kind of you
know as a human being we tend to try
to look at ourselves so when we see an
image we look at ourselves so i could be
looking at
at this i could be then looking at you
um but the impression that gives
isn't doesn't give that impression that
i'm actually really listening to you
and i'm really you know not that
interested in you so
by looking just by looking at that
at that lens and trying to keep keep
your eyes on the lens you don't you
don't have to keep it on
all the time so sometimes when you're
thinking or or downward thinking the
eyes go down for example
you can do that but then go back to the
lens because when we look at somebody
it almost it's almost like we're showing
them respect
we're showing them that we want to
listen to them we're showing them that
we're
you know this is the target of of the
person we're looking at and naturally if
it's
if we you know in the real world if we
just keep staring at somebody
it does become kind of a negative target
but on on
zoom for example it's it's a way of
really showing
people that you're you're listening to
me it's a hard kind of concept
to get used to but once you've done it
once you've done it a few times and
remember that
it actually makes a big difference so
looking at the lens
and making sure um your your eye contact
is as much as possible
through that lens there also another
thing i've been doing as well
um you can probably see not probably
definitely you can see
um the the screen here my my hands what
my hands are doing
so i'm using i use my hands a lot
in terms of you know using it
using it as a as a as an illustrator
illustrating certain things if it's big
if it's small
if it's uh if it's great if it's if it's
not so great so
so using my hands and letting people see
what my hands are doing
is a good thing all right so i've got
them up here
so you can see them in the in the frame
if
i was to do this face to face probably
they would not be this high
right but in the screen it's kind of
okay to do that and sometimes just
looking at my arms now
so i'm using kind of like up till there
i've got there that area there to really
use my hands
i'm not throwing them all around all the
time i'm just simply
using them in a way that actually
gives you an opportunity to see what
they're doing and also
connecting them with those keywords and
those phrases that i'm using as well
so eye contact and letting people see
what you're doing with your hands
actually makes the person looking at you
and listening to you
become more engaged with you okay gotcha
all right so for anyone just tuning on
audio only essentially peter was moving
his hands but making sure that
within the frame so within your video
frame so using those gestures
to get across what he was chatting
through so good point to peter moving
that forward if um
if we're doing these things if we're
looking into the camera lens we're we're
making
solid gestures with our hands to put
across what we're saying
but our viewers our audience our
prospects are still losing attention
perhaps we're 15 20 minutes into a half
hour session
is there anything we can do to perk them
up at all so when perhaps there is it's
dragged on a little bit we're getting
towards the end
are there any ways we can uplift their
attention as we feel it start to drop
yeah i mean if you think about it the
the biggest difference between
a a virtual call a virtual meeting an
event online
in a on a screen as opposed to real life
is that the engagement level
has to be higher we have to get people's
attentions
quicker when it's on the screen so
anything on a screen
we need to get just think about it your
mobile phone your laptop your tv
whatever however big the screen is we
need
to get people's attentions um quicker
all right so it's really important to to
do maybe other things
that actually gets people's attention so
i'm already again i'm already doing it
with my voice
the way i'm speaking and the way that
i'm sharing my messages
and and my tone is going up and down
i've also got a melody there as well
i'm projecting my voice through the lens
here i'm looking at the lens and i'm
moving my hands but there are many other
small things you can do to
to really get people's attention and one
of those things is
the chat so we've got you know on zoom
you've got a fantastic tool which is
very simply
the chat area so asking your
you know the people that are on the
court to be involved and try to do that
from the beginning
so one one idea is at the beginning
before you've even started when people
are joining the call
some are early some are late some are
really late
but you know people are there you know
joining on and you see them
as they come you see their images you
see the little boxes appear up in the
names
some are muted some are not muted get
them if you can
to be to get their screens on if
possible
because that helps them it helps you and
it helps everybody
to see who's actually there all right so
we can see people
and that actually makes the speaker or
the person leading the call
feel a lot better because he can see or
she can see
who's with them right then ask them
perhaps a question so
as we're starting this this call as
people are joining us
just one main question i would love to
know exactly
where you are in the world and maybe or
or another question
one thing that's made you smile today
three two one bang
and then you get people to to write in
what that is
and then up on the side on the chat what
happens is people put those in
and because you've put yours in you've
put your
answer in you're more more
intrigued to know or curious to know
what other people are going to say
right so they pop up theirs and then and
then again conversations can start
around this
but it keeps people engaged another
thing is
using the area using the environment
that you're in
to really you know boost
up that engagement in a in a conference
hall all you have is your voice and what
people see
but in in a room like this for example
right now here we are i'll tell you what
right three two one and you can do this
as well i hopefully you can
i'll give you 20 seconds or as quick as
you can
grab a book grab a book that you've
read recently or a a book that you
really
um that you really love okay if you can
do that right now for me can you do that
i don't actually have anybody next i've
got i've got a bunch of trophies next to
me that's what okay
get a trophy let's grab one
we've got a trophy i can see you've got
okay okay you've got a trophy i've got a
book
anyway if that was a book that could be
a book of trophies i don't know but
anyway so i would pop this
up to the screen and then everyone else
would put it up to the screen
and then so it almost again because
you're doing it
you're more intriguing to to you're more
curious as to know you know to know what
other people are going to put up
maybe there's a book that you've read
you know you've read the same book
you've got the same book on the on the
shelf it's a book you'd like to share
or you'd like to buy or like to read
and then once everybody's got those
books up again in the chat
it's an it's a nice kind of not i
wouldn't say an icebreaker but it's a
way of really
engaging people so you can do that with
with things the trophy tell me
where's that trophy from so this is
actually from
a few years back a sunday league
football team we used to play on
so it's uh something i won probably
about
four or five years ago now so i think
it's a seven aside football league
little trophy great
i mean that's a really good really good
question actually i'm just thinking now
yeah right grab something
are you still with me yep still here you
still hear me okay i'm
there i'm back again so grab
something that shows an achievement okay
30 seconds
go bang everyone comes back it's maybe a
certificate
maybe a swimming certificate in your
pajamas when you were 10
whatever it is maybe it's a cricket
maybe it's a a cricket trophy
whatever it is can you still hear me
hopefully yeah you okay
okay there's a little bit of problem
with the the
with the cam but that's okay if it goes
off i'll just come back again and keep
talking
just like now no problem we can hear you
fine
good okay i'll try and get back there
there we are should be okay so
whoops
are we are we back we are right so yeah
using
something like a a a
a trophy a book something in your
environment
that really does get you to get people
to see
a little bit more about you a little bit
more about your
environment especially if you're a
leader
because we then we show a little bit of
our vulnerability a little bit of our
kind of personal side which you know
other people in the team would certainly
love to see because perhaps that's not a
side that we often see
just try and get back there yeah no
worries we can still hear you all fine
yes
that's the main thing so no those are
really nice quirky ideas peter something
i've not necessarily heard of
and just unusual ways you can boost that
interaction
and just like you said if you're if
you're perhaps hosting some kind of
online meeting some kind of online
webinar
you can prompt everyone tuning in to
grab something whether it's an
achievement whether it's a book whether
it's something else that pops into your
head
just to add that layer of quirkiness and
perhaps people that weren't paying
quite as much as attention once they
hear that like what the heck is going on
yeah i'll probably grab this and
it's just a nice nice little way to
break it up and get people back on
back on track i guess um all right
good stuff so we've covered we've
covered the mindset we've covered things
about feeling confident how to get
yourself
in the right positivity the right frame
of mind we've talked about boosting
levels of engagement
how to things about being aware of
yourself in terms of
looking at your camera in terms of hand
gestures and all that good stuff
are there any points to wrap up peter
that we we haven't yet touched on
that just going to help people boost
their online calls their virtual calls
that little bit extra
listen i think i think we've kind of
covered the main areas
which is you know as i say all about
your mindset getting into the same right
frame of mind before you begin
making sure that the the frame that
you're looking at is
is um doesn't take away any distractions
as well we've got a few things going on
behind me here but hey there they're
there that kind of shows you exactly
what's going on
here in my environment but hopefully the
focus is is on me as much as possible
and also your voice so again remember
the these when you're on a zoom call
when you're on a virtual call
the engagement level is is number one so
i know it's difficult especially when
you're doing lots of them
to kind of uh you know that that's kind
of zoom
virtual cool fatigue kind of kind of
moves in quite quickly throughout the
day but again try to think to yourself
okay my body
is my instrument and my voice
is is is what people really are engaged
by so
make taking care of that drinking water
for example
um having a glass of water or a bottle
of water
close by while you're on the call if if
you're
if you feel your voice is starting to
get a little bit hoarse a little bit dry
um not at the call but before the call
again stop talking
stop talking take take that glass of
water relax
breathe you know take care of yourself
so that when it comes to the time where
you share your messages
and you're you're you're on that call
make sure the engagement is there
because remember
everybody again like i said before
nobody owes you their time
nobody owes you anything at all so you
have to earn that
you have to get their respect people
will judge us
we can't stop that so say to yourself
listen go go ahead and judge me it's
okay
judge me i want you to judge me because
what i'm to do i'm going to give value
i'm going to give you something
something that's going to make sense
something that you're going to walk away
with hopefully that will help you
something a few tips a few ideas right
now we've had a
conversation for about half an hour or
so and
you know lots of things have been thrown
out some things
you will agree with some things perhaps
not but if you walk away with like one
or two things
that you can say to yourself listen i'm
i think that's a good idea
i'm gonna try that on my next call then
then you know that that's that's what
this this is all about
we've we've achieved what we wanted to
achieve exactly that's exactly what the
show's for peter i've certainly taken
away a few nice nuggets and i'm sure
everyone tuning in has
so with that i want to thank you very
much for coming on sir and peter please
do tell us more about how people can
learn from you how they can connect with
you and the best way to get in touch
so the best way to connect up with me is
linkedin
connect with me link up send me a little
message to say that you've listened to
this
this podcast this conversation that i
have with sam and
you can find everything i'm doing there
my website right now is under
construction it should be up soon
but you can find everything i'm doing on
linkedin uh in terms
of uh some of the courses i'm doing um
the audio course that's coming up as
well
and uh some of the events i'm doing
which you can you can join
uh in with me as well awesome
peter thanks so much for coming on man
really appreciate it
loved it let's do it again sometime no
problem happy to have you back on sir
and if you want to check out more about
peter it's all available on the show
notes
over at business growth dot marketing
and if you enjoyed the show be sure to
hit subscribe on your podcast channel of
choice we interview business leaders
each and every week to provide
actionable tips across marketing
across growth across sales all to help
you grow your business
and once again thanks for tuning in
we'll see you on the next episode